Welcome to the YagerPaint tool guide! If you have any questions about how to use any of the 
YagerPaint tools, this guide is the place to look.

Line

The line tool allows you to draw straight lines. Change the color of line using the "Line Color" 
color picker. Change the width of the line with the "Line Width" slider. Swith the end caps of 
the line between square and round using the "Edge Rounding" selector. Press a point on the 
canvas, drag on the canvas to another point on the canvas and release to draw a line.

Free Draw

The free draw tool allows you to draw a line as wavy and crazy as you would like. Change the 
color of line using the "Line Color" color picker. Change the width of the line with the "Line 
Width" slider. Swith the end caps of the line between square and round using the "Edge Rounding" 
selector (note that round edges often make the bends in free draw lines look better). Press a 
point on the canvas and drag the mouse around on the canvas free draw.

Erase

The erase tool works just like a pencil eraser, and allows you to erase everything on a prt of 
the canvas. It is quite similar to the free draw tool. Change the width of the eraser with the 
"Line Width" slider. Swith the eraser between square and round using the "Edge Rounding" 
selector (note that a round eraser often looks cleaner). Press a point on the canvas and drag 
the mouse around on the canvas erase.

Square

The square tool allows you to draw a perfect square. Change the outline color and width with the 
"Line Color" color selector and "Line Width" slider, respectively. Change the fill color with 
the "Fill Color" color selector. Switch to rounded squares using the "Edge Rounding" selector, 
and change the degree of rounding with the "Sides" slider. Draw a square by pressing on the canvas 
and dragging to another point on the canvas until you are satisfied with your square, then release. 
The first point you press will be one corner of your square.

Rectangle

The rectangle tool allows you to draw a rectangle. Change the outline color and width with the 
"Line Color" color selector and "Line Width" slider, respectively. Change the fill color with 
the "Fill Color" color selector. Switch to rounded rectangles using the "Edge Rounding" selector, 
and change the degree of rounding with the "Sides" slider. Draw a rectangle by pressing on the 
canvas and dragging to another point on the canvas until you are satisfied with your rectangle, 
then release. The first point you press will be one corner of your rectangle.

Circle

The circle tool allows you to draw a perfect circle. Change the outline color and width with the 
"Line Color" color selector and "Line Width" slider, respectively. Change the fill color with 
the "Fill Color" color selector. Draw a circle by pressing on the canvas and dragging to another 
point on the canvas until you are satisfied with your circle, then release. The first point you 
press will be the center of your circle.

Ellipse

The ellipse tool allows you to draw an ellipse. Change the outline color and width with the 
"Line Color" color selector and "Line Width" slider, respectively. Change the fill color with 
the "Fill Color" color selector. Draw an ellipse by pressing on the canvas and dragging to 
another point on the canvas until you are satisfied with your ellipse, then release. The first 
point you press will be one corner of an imaginary rectangle which will circumscribe the 
ellipse.

Regular Polygon

The regular polygon tool allows you to draw a perfect regular polygon. Change the outline color 
and width with the "Line Color" color selector and "Line Width" slider, respectively. Change the 
fill color with the "Fill Color" color selector. Change the number of sides with the "Sides:" 
slider. Draw a regular polygon by pressing on the canvas and dragging to another point on the 
canvas until you are satisfied with your polygon, then release. The first point you press will 
be the center of your regular polygon.

Irregular Polygon

The irregular polygon tool allows you to draw an irregular polygon. Change the outline color and 
width with the "Line Color" color selector and "Line Width" slider, respectively. Change the 
fill color with the "Fill Color" color selector. Change the number of sides with the "Sides:" 
slider. Draw an irregular polygon by clicking on all the place on the canvas that you want the 
vertices to be. The irregular polygon will automatically draw when you place the final point.

Star

The star tool allows you to draw a perfect star. Change the outline color and width with the 
"Line Color" color selector and "Line Width" slider, respectively. Change the fill color with 
the "Fill Color" color selector. Change the number of points with the "Sides:" slider. Draw a 
star by pressing on the canvas and dragging to another point on the canvas until you are 
satisfied with your star, then release. The first point you press will be the center of your 
star.

Text

The text tool allows you to write text onto the canvas. Change the outline color with the "Line 
Color" color selector, and the fill color with the "Fill Color" color selector. Change the font 
size with the "Line Width" slider. Put the text you would like to write to the canvas in the 
"Text:" field. To write the text onto the canvas, press on the canvas and drag the text until it 
is in the position you would like it to be, then release.

Select & Move

The select and move tool allows you to select a particular area of the canvas and move it to a 
new place on the canvas. To select an area, press on the canvas and drag until the preview 
rectangle includes everything you want to move. Release, and the selected area will pop off the 
canvas. You can then drag this selection with the mouse to the new place you would like it to 
be. When you are satisfied with the selection's location, hit enter. The selection will be in 
the new position.

Fill

The fill tool allows you to fill an enclosed area that is all one color with a new color. Change 
the fill color using the "Fill Color" color selector. Click a point in the area you would like 
to fill, and the fill tool will change the color of that area.

Grab Color

The color grabber tool allows you to draw with a color that is already in the canvas. Select the 
"Grab color" button, then click a point on the canvas. Your line color will automatically change 
to that color, and it will be added to the custom colors in both your "Line Color" and your 
"Fill Color" color selectors.

Zoom In & Zoom Out

The zoom in and out buttons zoom the canvas in and out in five percent increments, respectively.

File > New Canvas

The new canvas option allows you to create a new blank canvas with dimensions that you specify.

File > Load Image

The load image option allows you to load an image and modify it.

File > Save & Save As

The save and save as options allow you to save an image you've been working on. Save as will 
save the image to a new file, while save overwrites the old file that you've modified.

Edit > Undo & Redo

Undo allows you to go back after making changes, and redo allows you to repeat changes that you 
have undone.

Edit > Scale 

Scale allows you to scale the image you are working with up or down, changing its 
dimensions while remaining as close to possible to the original appearance. Note that scaling 
the canvas size up may result in a blurry image.

View > Show Draw Tools

The show draw tools option opens the separate draw tools window if it has been closed.

View > Toggle Tools Location

The toggle tools location option shifts the external tools window into the top of the main 
window, and back again.

Help > About

The about option shows the current version and release notes.

Help > Tool Guides

The tool guides option opens this window containing helpful information about how to use the 
various tools.

Exit

Exit close the window.

CONTROL + Z

Undo

CONTROL + SHIFT + Z

Redo

CONTROL + S

Save

CONTROL + SHIFT + S

Save as

CONTROL + N

New file

CONTROL + O

Load file

F1

Show help > about

ESCAPE

Switch to Mouse tool

CONTROL + Q

Quit

ALT + F

Open file menu

ALT + E

Open edit menu

ALT + V

Open view menu

ALT + H

Open help menu